# 561-Code

## Purpose

This is a small-scale simulation to test out how well end hosts could learn optimal routing parameters given stochastic network conditions and competition for resources. It isn't really a realistic simulation, but a first step for potential further study. This was a final project for Princeton's COS-561 networking course. The simulator framework was written by myself, the learning algorithm was written and developed by myself and Zheng Shi, and the optimization algorithm was written and developed by myself and Uthsav Chitara.

## Program usage

This program is used by call the main function with 3 arguments: the number of times steps you wish to run a simulation for, the name of a configuration file with the simulation parameters, and the name of the output file.

The output of the program is written in a format that is compatible with Python's configparser module. The ProcessOutput.py module can be used to convert the output file data into an easy-to-use Python dictionary for analysis.

The learning and optimization strategy described in our project report is currently the only available stategy. However, new strategies could be implemented and used by modifying the Strategies.py file. Instructions on how to implement a new strategy are included in that file.

## Creating a configuration file

An example configuration file ("example.conf") is included in the repository. The first 3 lines of the example configuration file should be included in any new configuration file, and should remain unmodified.

Lines 5-8 in the example configuration file represent the parameters for a single node. Line 5 shows the node's name, which should be unique. Line 6 shows the name of the strategy that this specific node is using. The value given here should be the name of a strategy in the Strategies.py file. Line 7 represents the mean and standard deviation of the number of packets generated by this node. Line 8 represents the weight that the node puts on cost, speed, and number of packets that reach the destination in spite of any cost or speed benefit, in that order. Any number of nodes can be added or removed from the simulation, but the simulation requires at least one node.

Lines 15-17 in the example configuration file represent the parameters for a single network. Line 15 shows the network's name, which should be unique. Line 16 represents the mean and standard deviation from which the network draws capcacity, reliability, cost, and speed on a given time step (in that order). Line 17 represents a variable that should be included in any network parameter set, but should remain unmodified. Again, any number of networks can be added or removed from the simulatino, but the simulation requires at least one network.
